---
layout: post
title: "Day 16 – Machine Learning"
date: 2025-06-16
author: Michael Orishagbemi
permalink: /day16.html
tags: ["Machine Learning", "ELM", "KNN", "Neural Network"]

what_i_learned: |
  Today I learned more about Machine Learning and neural networks. Essentially the are both concepts of higher thinking in computers, machine learning is the use of algorithms to make machines rely less on instructions to solve problems and neural networks are basically nodes that mimick the biological learning of humans for machines. Today I went through two neural network methods, ELM (Extreme Learning Machine) and KNN (K-Nearest Neighbors). ELM is a network that is often used for classification and regression tasks while KNN is a learning-algorithm that uses predictions by comparing new data to stored data.
 
blockers: |
  I'm having a lot of trouble with ELM and KNN even on just the conceptual level. The difficulty of applying my own datasets to it is probably the toughest thing I've done in this program.

reflection: |
  I found the machine learning lessons today to be the hardest part of the research program so far. First off the syntax is overwhelming, compared to what I worked with before its hard for me to perceive what's going on in the code. This is coupled with the fact that a lot of new concepts/concepts I'm not really confident on are being introduced. Things like new libraries, splitting the data, scaling the output size, and the confusion matrix all just add to me not understanding what's going on. 

